Proceedings of the IASS 2024 Symposium
Redefining the Art of Structural Design
August 26-30, 2024, Zurich Switzerland
Philippe Block, Giulia Boller, Catherine DeWolf,
Jacqueline Pauli, Walter Kaufmann (eds.)

Unfold Form
A curved-crease unfoldable formwork for a corrugated fan-vaulted floor
Lotte SCHEDER-BIESCHIN*, Mark HELLRICH, Tom VAN MELE, Philippe BLOCK
* ETH Zurich, Institute of Technology in Architecture, Block Research Group
Stefano-Franscini-Platz 1 HIB, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland
scheder@arch.ethz.ch

Abstract
To address the urgent challenges faced by the construction industry of reducing carbon emissions while
meeting the demand for new floor area, innovating floor systems offers high potential as slabs are
structurally highly inefficient and mass dominant. Unreinforced vaulted floor systems offer a promising
strategy through their geometric stiffness. However, the drawback commonly lies in the expensive and
wasteful formworks for such non-standard geometry, furthermore often relying on digital fabrication,
which is not available in emerging markets where there is the highest need. In response, this research
introduces a low-tech, low-cost, material-efficient, lightweight, compactly transportable, rapidly
deployable, self-supporting, and reusable formwork solution. Unfoldable curved-creased bending-active
plates with textile hinges enable the in-situ construction of unreinforced corrugated fan-vaulted floor
systems. The curved creases provide shape control, while the corrugations provide stiffening and
translate into concrete rib articulations to enhance material efficiency. This paper focuses on validating
the system through a demonstrator. The system, its co-design methods, and its fabrication and
construction are presented. By employing structural geometry for both formwork and resulting shell
floor, as opposed to wasteful moulds and inefficient slabs, the system could reduce the environmental
impact of the construction industry.
Keywords: curved-crease unfolding, bending-active plates, deployable formwork, corrugated shell, vaulted floor system, insitu construction, low-tech, structural geometry.

1

Introduction

1.1 Motivation
The construction industry faces the challenge of having to significantly reduce its tremendous carbon
emissions while urgently providing nearly double the existing floor area by 2050 [1]. Innovation in floor
systems has the most potential for impact considering that slabs constitute approximately half of the
mass of multi-storey buildings [2] and are structurally highly inefficient. A rethinking based on the
principles of the Gothic master builders teaches us to use strength through structural geometry. This
effective principle is applied to vaulted floor systems through the introduction of a thin funicular
unreinforced concrete shell with local stiffening articulations [3]. Mainly subject to low compressive
stresses, these enable savings on reinforcement steel and concrete mass, additionally allowing lower
strength, hence a lower cement ratio [3].
However, the drawback of construction of such non-standard geometry commonly lies in expensive,
wasteful, bulky, and single-use formworks. Additionally, most custom formwork strategies rely on hightech digital fabrication methods; however, the majority of the 2050-projected demand for floor area lies
in economically less developed countries [1], where these tools are commonly unavailable.
Consequently, formwork strategies with a universal approach using low-tech, low-cost materials,

Copyright © 2024 by Lotte Scheder-Bieschin, Mark Hellrich, Tom Van Mele, Philippe Block
Published by the International Association for Shell and Spatial Structures (IASS) with permission.

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

machinery and equipment could be applied in a wide range of regions, increasing their potential impact
drastically.
The aim of this research is a low-tech, cost- and material-efficient, compact, and reusable formwork
system that enables the in-situ construction of structurally efficient vaulted floors. Key to this innovation
is that the formation of the formwork is based on a simple geometric principle. And equally to the shell,
the formwork achieves its strength through geometry.
1.2 Curved-crease unfolding
The active bending of plates allows the efficient construction of lightweight, curved structures without
using formwork or digital fabrication [4]. However, the shape of unconstrained bending-active plates is
limited to the Elastica curve, and they undergo large deformations and risk stability failure under external
loads [5]. Instead, with curved-crease folding (CCF), the plate’s curvature is controlled by the crease
shape (Fig. 1a), offering high geometric control and an intriguing design space [6]. Moreover, the mutual
restraint of the adjacent plates improves structural performance significantly (Fig. 1b) [5]. Consequently,
curved-crease-folded bending-active plates can be taken beyond the realm of installations to
architectural-scale structural applications [7], [8]. However, their plate thickness lies beyond foldability,
which necessitates the assembly of separate plates with curved hinges.
Since the plates must be joined regardless, the structure can be joined from stacked plates along curved
creases into a flat-folded configuration, which is then unfolded. This concept was introduced with the
terminology of Curved-Crease Unfolding (CCU) along with its geometric principles by SchederBieschin et al. [9]. In the classic CCF, a flat assembly is folded from a large element into a more compact
spatial configuration. Whereas in CCU, flat-folded plates can be unfolded rapidly from a compact state
with an accordion-like mechanism into a double-curved, corrugated structure with extended design
possibilities. Hence, this material-efficient structure is highly suitable as a formwork system for a shell
with corrugated ribs as stiffening articulations, as conceptually demonstrated in Scheder-Bieschin et al.
[5].

a

b
Fig. 1: Principle of (a) shape control and (b) stiffening of curved-crease unfolding shown based on a single
bending-active plate (left) and curved-crease folded plates (right) [5]

1.3 Vision of “Unfold Form”
The vision of this research is to apply the principles of CCU bending-active plates as a reusable
formwork for the in-situ construction of a compression-only, unreinforced-concrete, fan-vaulted floor.
The core principles of the “Unfold Form” construction system are at a geometric, structural and design
level: i) the geometric control of the creases with informed curvature allows the controlled shaping of a
funicular shell geometry; ii) the resulting corrugations with their static height provide geometric stiffness
for the formwork but also result in stiffening ribs in the concrete shell; and, iii) these geometric unfolding
and structural schemes eventuate in the intriguing aesthetics of a fan-vaulted rib layout of the thin-shell
floor inspired by the iconic King’s College Chapel in Cambridge.
2

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

The advantages of the construction system, as depicted in Figure 2, are a simple 2D prefabrication
process based on low-tech machinery and low-cost materials. It offers flat-packed, compact transport to
the construction site and the rapid, on-site deployment through the CCU unfolding mechanism into a
lightweight, self-supporting, material-efficient formwork. This formwork is robust and walkable to cast
in-situ a material-efficient, unreinforced concrete shell. Lastly, the reusability of the formwork enhances
ecological and economic sustainability.

Fig. 2: Vision of the “Unfold Form” formwork system (from left to right): simple 2D prefabrication, flat-packed
transport, rapid in-situ deployment, and easy and safe concrete casting

This research focuses on validating this vision through a half-scale demonstrator. The translation of the
system’s core principles necessitates the integrative design of geometry, engineering, and fabrication.
The paper first introduces the system design (Section 2), followed by a brief overview of the
computational design workflow (Section 3), a description of the prefabrication, including the
challenging design of the curved hinges, the construction and the result (Section 4), and concludes with
an outlook on the potentials of “Unfold Form” (Section 5).

2

System

The “Unfold Form” construction system consists of a flat-packed formwork that unfolds to form a fanvaulted concrete shell with corrugated ribs, which serves as the load-bearing structure of a vaulted floor
system. The demonstrator is realised at half-scale of a housing unit and spans 3 metres by 1.8 metres.
The proportions of this module are based on the golden ratio; however, these are flexible and could, for
example, also be square in plan. The height of the floor buildup varies between 40 cm at its supports at
its four corners and 18 cm at the centre crown. With over 70% of the floor depth below 25cm, including
the flooring, overall storey heights would not increase, rendering the system applicable to the building
sector.
The formwork system (Fig. 3a) consists of the curved-crease unfoldable plates that support and shape
the concrete (Fig. 3d) and a supporting frame substructure (Fig. 3b,c). The CCU system is composed of
four parts (Fig. 3e), two identical and two mirrored ones, that unfold (Fig. 3d) to cover the four
symmetric quadrants of the fan vault. Each part is assembled from fourteen planar plates of 8mm poplar
plywood. Plywood is highly suitable for bending-active structures [10], furthermore, its orthotropy is
oriented such that its lower stiffness aligns with the direction of active bending and its higher stiffness
with the ruling directions.
The CCU plates are connected and covered with an industrial woven polyester textile tailored from
fourteen developable textile strips. The resulting curved textile hinges allow the simultaneous unfolding
and active bending. As the hinge design in the proof-of-concept prototype [5], the textile is wrapped
around the edges such that the adhesive bond is subject to tangential forces instead of debonding normal
forces while the centre of rotation is located around the seam (Fig. 3h). A one-sided PVC coating of the
textile ensures a clean concrete surface finish and robustness for reuse in multiple casting cycles, while
the non-coated surface ensures better adhesion to the plywood plates.
The four elements of the CCU system are vertically supported in situ at the four corners with simple
props and thrust against the capitals of the columns. These capitals are connected with tension ties that
restrain the horizontal thrust during the casting process and later of the resulting vaulted structure. In a
3

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

real-world construction case, these could be hidden in walls or replaced by buttresses. The four CCU
parts are actuated when restrained within the capitals and the supporting frame substructure. The frame
is made of 24mm plywood plates and connects to the CCU system with industrial velcro fasteners to
ensure a rapid and reversible connection for multiple casting cycles. The frame’s zigzag-shaped plates
along the crown lines (Fig. 3c) and the ledges along the perimeter help to precisely position, support,
and stiffen the four parts, while the sidewalls (Fig. 3b) provide a mould for the wet concrete along the
sides. The formwork system has no counter-mould for simplicity of fabrication.
The corrugated vaulted shape of the formwork forms the intrados of the concrete shell, while the
extrados is shaped manually into a continuous surface (Fig. 4a). Consequently, the resulting fan-vaulted
shell has stiffening ribs with triangular cross-sections. These secure the structural height to provide
geometric stiffness against asymmetric loads. The ribs vary the structural height of the concrete shell
between 4 cm to 13.5 cm at the deepest rib at the centre. As the funicular geometry of the formwork and
hence the concrete shell ensures primarily compressive stresses, the concrete shell is unreinforced,
saving material and simplifying construction separation of parts for end-of-life recycling.
The “Unfold Form” floor system is completed with a dry fill for load distribution, insulation and
horizontal levelling (Fig. 4b). Its dry nature allows for fast processing time and circular reuse. The floor
finishing layers are composed of a fibre board for additional insulation (Fig. 4c), a dry screed for
additional load distribution (Fig. 4d), and a rubber floor finish (Fig. 4e).

Fig. 3: System design of (a) the “Unfold Form” formwork: (b) side walls with side ledges, (c) crown plates,
(d) unfolded CCU quarters, (e) folded CCU quarters, and (f) a closeup of the curved textile hinge design

4

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

Fig. 4: System design of the “Unfold Form” floor system with (a) fan-vaulted shell and floor build-up with
(b) dry fill, (c) fibre boards, (d) dry-screed, and (e) rubber floor finish

3

Geometric and structural co-design

The Unfold Form construction system emerges from an iterative and integrative computational codesign process that encompasses geometric, structural, and fabrication constraints for both the highly
interdependent formwork and shell structure (Fig. 5). The design optimisation was achieved through a
parametric sensitivity analysis evaluated against these constraints [11].
The geometric design commences with the form finding of the funicular target geometry based on a fanvault pattern (Fig. 5a), utilising the Thrust Network Optimisation package from COMPAS [12]. The
funicular target is translated along the curved-crease unfolded principle with the reflection method [9]
into the corrugated bending-active plate geometry of the formwork (Fig. 5b) such that the thrust curves
are contained within the kern of the shell structure [11]. The shell geometry is defined by the CCU
formwork at its intrados and by a minimum thickness of 4 cm to its continuous extrados.
The structural design verifies this geometric design of the funicular shell with the Finite Element
software SOFiSTiK [13]. The serviceability and ultimate limit state (SLS and ULS) are analysed along
with a push-over analysis to determine the optimal iteration of the parametric design space. The
formwork as well is analysed for SLS and ULS plus a buckling analysis is performed to capture potential
snap-through behaviour. It is modelled with spring connections along the curved-crease hinges and
includes the internal stresses from the bending-active actuation.
The fabrication design reconciles reciprocal constraints from both the formwork and shell and integrates
the detailing from the prototyping process. Finally, the 2D geometry of the formwork plates and textile
strips is computed through the simulation of the close-folding of the CCU mechanism and exported
along with all other formwork components as fabrication data.

5

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

Fig. 5: Simplified integrative co-design workflow of the “Unfold Form” construction system

4

Fabrication and construction

The fabrication data from the high-tech design process are transferred to the low-tech fabrication
process. The fabrication process is highly informed by an extensive prototyping and material
development phase with the primary challenge of flexible yet structural and sealed hinges for rapid
deployment, as well as a generally robust formwork solution for reusability and in-situ application.
4.1 Prefabrication
The prefabrication of the CCU formwork quarters commences with the cutting of the textile strips and
plywood plates into their simple 2D cutting patterns. This process can be adapted to the context, from
high-tech tools such as CNC machines (Fig. 6a) to low-tech tools such as a combination of paper stencils
and a jigsaw. The textile strips are sewn together using a regular sewing machine with an industrial
thread (Fig. 6b). The timber plates are adhered to the tailored textile using standard double-sided tape
(Fig. 6c). The textile perimeter flaps are wrapped around the plate’s edges and fixed with staples,
guaranteeing a low-cost and effective fastener.

Fig. 6: Prefabrication of the CCU formwork: (a) cutting of the plywood plates,
(b) sewing of the textile strips, and (c) assembly of the CCU system

This prefabrication results in the four compactly flat-packed, lightweight formwork elements weighing
only 6 kg each. It is based on a time-effective, simple, low-tech, yet precise production. Likewise, the
elements of the formwork frame require simple 2D processing of plywood only. The total kit of parts of
the formwork (Fig. 7a) is so flat-packed and compact that it can be transported even on a Vespa (Fig.
9b).
4.2 On-site assembly
On site, the frame is rapidly assembled in a plug-and-play manner due to hinges and reversible bolted
connections (Fig. 7b). The CCU formwork quarters are instantly deployed and reversibly connected to
the side ledges and zigzag-shaped crown plates through the industrial velcro strip (Fig. 7c). The low6

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

tech system results in a robust and walkable formwork onto which the shell can be directly cast without
further steps (Fig. 8a). Its complex structural geometry achieves high geometric precision as evidenced
by scanning measurements.
Due to safety regulations of the research environment at ETH Zurich, the in-situ construction scenario
could only be simulated at a height of 70 cm. After casting, the floor was lifted onto the intended 2metre-high columns.

Fig. 7: On-site assembly of the formwork: (a) kit of parts, (b) formwork frame,
and (c) deployment of the CCU quarters

4.3 Concrete casting
The single-sided mould with a vaulted extrados requires a concrete mix design with a non-fluid
consistency such that it can be shaped by masonry trowels yet with sufficient workability for compacting
and surface finish quality. This mix design was calibrated in experiments prior to concrete casting by
tweaking the sensitive water-cement ratio. The use of renewable kenaf fibres improves consistency,
shrinkage cracking, and flexural strength [14]. Even though the single-sided mould typology demands
manual shaping of the extrados, the key advantages, compared to a system with counter-mould, are to
circumvent the tremendous hydrostatic pressure and additional weight against the resulting uplift.
The concrete casting was carried out in two batches: a first layer to carefully compact the ribs with
vibrating needles (Fig. 8b), and a second layer for the continuous shell. The extrados was compacted
and formed with vibrating trowels following custom-made timber guides to control the shell’s thickness
(Fig. 8c). The casting process took approximately two hours, a time frame that could be significantly
optimised in the future.

Fig. 8: Concrete casting: (a) underside of formwork, (b) filling of the triangular-shaped ribs,
and (c) manual shaping of the shell’s extrados with masonry trowels

4.4 Decentring and reuse
After three days of curing, the concrete shell can be decentred already, a time-efficient optimisation over
conventional reinforced concrete slabs. This is due to the low compressive stresses of the funicular
geometry and the absence of bond requirements with reinforcement. The “Unfold Form” system is
designed such that decentring is highly intuitive and rapid and with reversible connections only to
guarantee many cycles of reuse. After removal of the formwork frame by releasing the velcro
connections, the CCU quarters can be easily removed from the concrete surface (Fig. 9a) thanks to their
flexibility and PVC coating, making release agents obsolete. The elements can be rapidly refolded into
their compact state and reused after a quick cleaning. The floor system was cast three times already
without any noticeable wear, demonstrating the reusability of the formwork system. Many more cycles
of reuse are anticipated.

7

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

Fig. 9: (a) Decentring of the CCU quarters, and (b) transport of the formwork on a Vespa for reuse

4.5 Final floor system of fan-vaulted shell
After further concrete curing, the floor system is completed with the build-up described in Section 2 and
shown in Figure 4. This process followed conventional state-of-the-art practices for flooring systems.
The floor system drew inspiration from Gothic structural principles. Its ceiling, the exposed intrados of
the shell, shows a highly intriguing architectural expression with its crisp corrugations, particularly when
subject to light (Fig. 10). Its fan-vaulted ribs accentuate the vaulted sense of space while providing the
structural height for stiffening against asymmetric loads. This expressive, elegant form is not despite but
because of the constraints of structural efficiency and fabrication economy.

Fig. 10: Final “Unfold Form” floor system

5

Conclusion and outlook

This research presents a construction system for an innovative floor to address the urgent challenges
faced by the construction industry of reducing carbon emissions while meeting the large demand for
new floor area. The system's core innovation lies in the use of curved-crease unfolding (CCU) of
bending-active plates as a reusable formwork for the in-situ construction of unreinforced fan-vaulted
concrete shells. The curved creases provide shape control beyond the bending-active Elastica into the
funicular shape while the corrugations provide stiffening and translate into concrete rib articulations that
enhance material efficiency.

8

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

The successful realisation of a building-scale demonstrator showcases the viability of the “Unfold Form”
system. Key advantages of the novel formwork system include its simple, low-cost, low-tech, and
gender-equal prefabrication – gender-equal as many prefabrication tasks were executed by a pregnant
woman, ultimately fostering a more inclusive construction industry; its extremely light weight of 24 kg
and flat-packed state to be transported even on a Vespa; its instant deployability on site with high
geometric precision; its material-efficient, self-supporting, robust, walkable, and geometrically-complex
structure; and its reusability after only a few days. The resulting unreinforced shell gains its stiffness
from its funicular and ribbed geometry drawing inspiration from gothic masterpieces. Compared to a
conventional slab, it significantly reduces concrete mass and eliminates the need for reinforcement,
except the minimal tension ties, which saves cost, embodied carbon, and rebar placement, as well as
facilitates the separation of parts at its end of life.
The architectural outlook of the “Unfold Form” floor system is its application in multiple bays, for
example, in housing units, arcades, or collonaded warehouses as done by Nervi. Since the CCU system
is geometrically versatile, other proportions of spans are feasible. Furthermore, its design freedom also
allows other typologies, such as corrugated funnel columns or barrel vaults [5], [9]. The scalability of
the formwork and shell system is to be investigated through structural simulations [11] and prototyping.
Furthermore, studies could focus on the beneficial effect of the corrugated vaulted ribs on room
acoustics.
The outlook for the materialisation of the formwork ranges from using more natural textiles, such as
hemp, to GFRP or steel, depending on the sustainability goal, anticipated reuse cycles, technological
context, and scale. For the fan-vaulted shell, conventional concrete could be replaced with concrete with
a non-cement binder or other liquid-to-solid materials with low strength and embodied carbon to enhance
sustainability further.
The outlook on the application of the “Unfold Form” system ranges from high-tech contexts, benefitting
from its aesthetics and efficiency, to predominantly less economically developed countries, benefiting
from its independence from high-tech means. This is because the expressive shape, the efficient
structural form, and the simple fabrication of the system are solely based on geometric principles. These
geometric principles are designed with a computational co-design workflow and translated into low-tech
construction. By employing structural geometry for both formwork and shell, as opposed to wasteful
moulds and structurally inefficient slabs, the system aims to contribute to mitigating the environmental
impact of the construction industry.

Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Andrea Menardo for the structural detailing of the supporting structure,
Ricardo Maia Avelino for support with compas_tno, Sam Bouten for SOFiSTiK discussions, and Nijat
Mahamaliyev for geometric scanning. Moreover, the authors would like to thank Jonathan Leu for his
incredible support with concrete knowledge and casting, Luca Petrus and Michael Lyrenmann for their
creative support in the ETH Zurich RFL, Henry Welch for his assistance at Raplab, the colleagues
Alessandro Dell’Endice, Vasilis Aloutsanidis, and Petras Vestartas to pitch in with the casting, Justus
Scheder-Bieschin for everything, and Heidi. Lastly, the authors would like to acknowledge the material
sponsors: Noraplan, Holcim, Cemwood, Debrunner Bewehrungen, Steico, Fermacell James Hardie,
Oxara, Contec Fiber, and Proplana.

References
[1] UN Environment Programme, “2022 Global Status Report for Buildings and Construction:
Towards a Zero-emission, Efficient and Resilient Buildings and Construction Sector.,” Nairobi,
Kenya, DTI/2482/PA, 2022. Accessed: Jun. 23, 2023. [Online]. Available:
http://www.unep.org/resources/publication/2022-global-status-report-buildings-and-construction
[2] P. Bischof, J. Mata-Falcón, and W. Kaufmann, “Fostering innovative and sustainable mass-market
construction using digital fabrication with concrete,” Cement and Concrete Research, vol. 161, p.
106948, Nov. 2022, doi: 10.1016/j.cemconres.2022.106948.

9

Proceedings of the IASS Symposium 2024
Redefining the Art of Structural Design

[3] P. Block, T. Van Mele, M. Rippmann, F. Ranaudo, C. Calvo Barentin, and N. Paulson,
“Redefining structural art: Strategies, necessities and opportunities,” Structural Engineer, vol. 98,
no. 1, pp. 66–72, 2020.
[4] J. Lienhard, “Bending-Active Structures: Form-finding strategies using elastic deformation in
static and kinematic systems and the structural potentials therein,” Universität Stuttgart, Stuttgart,
Germany, 2014. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.18419/opus-107.
[5] L. Scheder-Bieschin, T. Mele, and P. Block, “Curved-crease folding of bending-active plates as
formwork: a reusable system for shaping corrugated concrete shell structures,” in Acadia 2022:
Hybrids & Haecceities, Philadelphia, 2022.
[6] D. A. Huffman, “Curvature and Creases: A Primer on Paper,” IEEE Transactions on Computers,
vol. C–25, no. 10, pp. 1010–1019, 1976, doi: 10.1109/TC.1976.1674542.
[7] R. Maleczek, G. Stern, A. Metzler, and C. Preisinger, “Large Scale Curved Folding Mechanisms,”
in DMSB 2019, Impact: Design With All Senses, C. Gengnagel, O. Baverel, J. Burry, M.
Ramsgaard Thomsen, and S. Weinzierl, Eds., Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2020, pp. 539–
553. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-29829-6.
[8] G. Rihaczek, M. Klammer, O. Basnak, A. Körner, R. La Magna, and J. Knippers, “Timbr Foldr –
A Design Framework and Material System for Closed Cross-section Curved Folded Structures,”
Journal of the International Association for Shell and Spatial Structures, vol. 63, no. 4, pp. 272–
288, Dec. 2022, doi: 10.20898/j.iass.2022.014.
[9] L. Scheder-Bieschin, T. V. Mele, and P. Block, “Curved-Crease Flat-Foldable Bending-Active
Plate Structures,” in Curved-Crease Flat-Foldable Bending-Active Plate Structures, De Gruyter,
2023, pp. 355–368. doi: 10.1515/9783111162683-027.
[10] N. Kotelnikova-Weiler, C. Douthe, E. Lafuente Hernández, O. Baverel, C. Gengnagel, and J.-F.
Caron, “Materials for Actively-Bent Structures,” International Journal of Space Structures, vol.
28, no. 3–4, pp. 229–240, Sep. 2013, doi: 10.1260/0266-3511.28.3-4.229.
[11] L. Scheder-Bieschin, M. Hellrich, T. Van Mele, and Block, Philippe, “Unfold Form: Structural
design of a curved-crease unfoldable formwork for a corrugated fan-vaulted floor,” in prep.
[12] R. Maia Avelino, “Thrust Network Optimisation for the Assessment of Vaulted Masonry
Structures,” Doctoral Thesis, ETH Zurich, 2023. doi: 10.3929/ethz-b-000611351.
[13] SOFiSTiK AG, “SOFiSTiK.” 2020. [Online]. Available: www.sofistik.com
[14] A. Elsaid, M. Dawood, R. Seracino, and C. Bobko, “Mechanical properties of kenaf fiber reinforced
concrete,” Construction and Building Materials, vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 1991–2001, Apr. 2011, doi:
10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2010.11.052.

10

